---
layout: default
---

# 1996-08-21 - the number of the the beast is [666] (was: CIA Contra Crack and LA Gangs)

## Header Data

From: attila \<attila<span>@</span>primenet.com\><br>
To: Rich Graves \<rich@c2.org\><br>
Message Hash: 084cce61d9ce3ea17e0851d3f2abe32e16c53c7f38d5fab9f01bf7249e1cbf9e<br>
Message ID: \<199608210700.BAA07366@InfoWest.COM\><br>
Reply To: _N/A_<br>
UTC Datetime: 1996-08-21 09:26:42 UTC<br>
Raw Date: Wed, 21 Aug 1996 17:26:42 +0800<br>

## Raw message

```
{% raw  %}From: attila <attila@primenet.com>
Date: Wed, 21 Aug 1996 17:26:42 +0800
To: Rich Graves <rich@c2.org>
Subject: the number of the the beast is [666] (was: CIA Contra Crack and LA Gangs)
Message-ID: <199608210700.BAA07366@InfoWest.COM>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Addressed to: Rich Graves <rich@c2.org>
              Cypherpunks <cypherpunks@toad.com>

I'll see your bet...  and raise you five....


 THE MARK OF THE BEAST

        "He causes all, both small and great, 
        rich and poor, free and slave, 
        to receive a mark in  their right hand 
        and in their foreheads, and that no one 
        may buy of sell except one who has the 
        mark or the name of the Beast, 
        or the number of his name"

                Revelation 13:16-17

The following article appeared in Nexus magazine Vol 2, No.20:


        The Microchip and the Mark of the Beast

Dr Carl W. Sanders is an electronics engineer, inventer, author
and consultant to various government organisations as well as
IBM, General Electric, Honeywell and Teledyne.  He is also a
winner of the Presidents and Governors Award for Design
Excellence.

"Thirty two years of my life was spent in design engineering and
electronics designing microchips in the Bio-Med field.

"In 1968 I became involved, almost by accident, in a research and
development project in regard to a spinal bypass for a young lady
who had severed her spine.  They were looking at possibly being
able to connect motor nerves etc.

"It was a project we were all excited about.  There were 100
people involved and I was senior engineer in charge of the
project.  This project culminated in the microchip that we talk
about now a - microchip that I believe is going to be the
positive identification and mark of the beast.

"This microchip is recharged by body temperature changes.
Obviously you can't go in and have your battery changed every so
often, so the microchip has a recharging circuit that charges
based upon the body temperature changes.  Over one and a half
million dollars was spent finding out that the two places in the
body that the temperature changes the most rapidly are in the
forehead (primary position), right below the hairline, and the
back of the hand (alternative position).

"Working on the microchip, we had no idea about it ever being an
identification chip.  We looked at it as beig a very humanitarian
thing to do.  We were all excited about what we were doing.  We
were doing high-level integration for the very first time.  This
team was made up of people out of San Jose, people fron
Motorolla, General Electric, Boston Medical Center - it was quite
a group of people.  My responsibility had to do with the design
of the chip itself, not the medical side of if.

"As the chip came to evolve, there came a time in the project
when they said that the financial return on bypassing severed
spines is not a very lucrative thing for us to be into, so we
really need to look at some other areas.  We noticed that the
frequency of the chip had a great effect upon behaviour and so we
began to branch off and look possibly at behaviour modification.

"The project almost turned into electronic acupuncture because
what they ended up with was embedding the microchip to put out a
signal which effected certain areas.  They were able to determine
that you could cause behavioural change.

"One of the projects was called the Phoenix project which had to
do with Vietnam veterans.  We had a chip that was called the
Rambo chip.  This chip would actually cause extra adrenaline
flow.

"I wonder how many of you know that if you can stop the output of
the the pituitary gland (the signal from the pituitary gland that
causes oestrogen flow), you can put a person into instant
menopause and there is no conception.  This was tested in India
and other different parts of the world.  So here you have got a
birth control tool, based on a microchip.  Microchips can also be
used for migraine headaches, behaviour modification,
upper/downer, sexual stimulant and sexual depressant.  This is
nothing more that electronic acupuncture, folks.

"There are 250,000 components in the microchip, including a tiny
lithium battery.  I fought them over using lithium as a battery
source but NASA was doing alot with lithium at that time and it
was the going thing.  I had talked to a doctor at the Boston
Medical Center about what that concentration of lithium in the
body could do if the chip broke down.  He said that you would get
a boil or grievous sore.

"As the development moved along, I left the project and came back
as a consultant several times.  I was used in many meetings as an
expert witness in regard to the uses of the microchip.

"I was in one meeting where it was discussed.  How can you
control a people if you can`t identify them ?"  All of a sudden
the idea came:  "Lets make them aware of lost children, etc."

"This was discussed in meetings almost like people were cattle.
The CIA came up with an idea of putting pictures of lost children
on milk cartons.  Since the chip is now accepted, you don`t see
the pictures anymore, do you.  It's served it's purpose.

"As we developed this microchip, as the identification chip
became the focal point, there were several things that were
wanted.  They wanted a name, an image (picture of your face),
Social security number with the international digits on it,
finger print identification, physical description, family
history, address, occupation, income tax information and criminal
record.

"I've been in 17 "one world" meetings where this has been
discussed, meetings in Brussels, Luxembourg, tying together the
finances of the world.

"Just recently in the newspapers they`ve talked about the Health
Care Program, the "Womb to Tomb" identification!  A positive
identification.  There are bills before congress right now that
will allow them to inject a microchip in your child at the time
of birth for identification purposes.

"The president of the United States of America, under the
"Emigration of Control Act of 1986", Section 100 , has the
authority to deem whatever type of identification is necessary -
whether it be an invisible tattoo or electronic media under the
skin.  So I think you have to look at the facts, folks:  this is
not coming as some big shock.  The paving has been done ahead of
time."


--
"The road to tyranny, we must never forget, begins with the
destruction of the truth." 
        -- Bill Clinton, Oct. 15, 1995 at the University of Connecticut.






{% endraw %}
```

## Thread

+ Return to [August 1996](/archive/1996/08)

+ Return to "[attila <attila<span>@</span>primenet.com>](/author/attila_attila_at_primenet_com_)"

+ 1996-08-21 (Wed, 21 Aug 1996 17:26:42 +0800) - the number of the the beast is [666] (was: CIA Contra Crack and LA Gangs) - _attila \<attila@primenet.com\>_

