---
layout: default
---

# 1996-01-10 - Sci-Atlanta Uses RSA

## Header Data

From: nobody<span>@</span>REPLAY.COM (Anonymous)<br>
To: cypherpunks@toad.com<br>
Message Hash: 284fafdf6460e8dd01b069278bce1bda0c5cbda5a445486acd50770cf4b19f03<br>
Message ID: \<199601100050.BAA00333@utopia.hacktic.nl\><br>
Reply To: _N/A_<br>
UTC Datetime: 1996-01-10 01:13:44 UTC<br>
Raw Date: Wed, 10 Jan 1996 09:13:44 +0800<br>

## Raw message

```
{% raw  %}From: nobody@REPLAY.COM (Anonymous)
Date: Wed, 10 Jan 1996 09:13:44 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Sci-Atlanta Uses RSA
Message-ID: <199601100050.BAA00333@utopia.hacktic.nl>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Scientific-Atlanta Announces Development of PowerKEY
Conditional Access System Using RSA 'Public Key'
Encryption Techniques

PowerKEY System Will Provide Sophisticated Security For
Signal Content, Interactive Messaging and Electronic
Commerce

S-A Becomes First Digital Set-Top Terminal Provider To
Use Patented RSA Algorithms


Atlanta, Jan. 9 -- Scientific-Atlanta, Inc. announced
today that it has licensed advanced encryption technology
from RSA Data Security, Inc. to be included in its
PowerKEY(TM) digital conditional access system, which is
being developed for use in set-top terminals, headend
components, cable modems and network element management
software.

The system will combine public key and secret key
cryptographic methods in physically secure
implementations to provide a high-performance security
solution for broadband networks.

Sophisticated conditional access systems allow cable and
other broadband network operators to be more flexible in
implementing new services that employ easy-to-use
security.  For example, both content providers and
network operators can have their own secure way to
protect content and communicate interactively with
subscribers.  Theft of services, falsified orders, and
vandalism of software and databases can be curtailed. 
Sensitive information, such as credit card numbers, can
be encrypted and exchanged.  In addition, the identity of
the sender and the message content can be authenticated
-- an important capability for multi-provider
authorization environments and for validation of orders
from subscribers.

The PowerKEY system, which is designed to be a licensable
access control and security system, will combine robust
security and encryption techniques with physically secure
implementation and sophisticated control systems.  The
PowerKEY system will be available on a variety of
interactive and broadcast networks, including CATV
broadcast, data, broadband multimedia, switched and
terrestrial wireless.  Its key functions will include:

-- message authentication to reject altered content and
   prevent downloading computer viruses to digital
   terminals

-- RSA's method of digital signature to provide
   unambiguous confirmation of sender's identity

-- public key encryption for secure transfer of
   entitlements, authorizations and consumer orders

-- high-speed secret key encryption to protect against
   theft of services

-- physically secure logic with renewable and replaceable
   security modules to thwart pirate tampering

-- seamless operation in support of both analog and
   digital services

-- multi-provider authenticated key management

-- forward and reverse path protection

-- messaging with guaranteed non-repudiation without need
   for trusted third parties

RSA's products are considered a de facto standard for
data encryption and authentication all over the world. 
The license to Scientific-Atlanta is the first that RSA
has granted to a set-top terminal manufacturer of its
widely adopted, patented technique for private messaging
and digital signature authentication.  The agreement
provides for the licensing of RSA technology, including
the algorithms that enable RSA's public key-private key
cryptography.  No other terms of the agreement were
disclosed.

With the PowerKEY system, Scientific-Atlanta plans to use
RSA cryptography algorithms in its end-to-end digital
systems -- set-top terminals, headend equipment and
control systems -- to improve communications security for
digital pay-per-view, cable modems and other broadcast
and interactive applications.  Scientific-Atlanta also
plans to license the PowerKEY system for use by other
manufacturers.

The widespread deployment of RSA encryption methods
supports the move to open standards of interactivity. 
"RSA's public key technology is one of the most advanced
forms of commercial cryptography available today," said
Michael P. Harney, Scientific-Atlanta's vice president
and general manager of broadband systems and technology. 
For the first time, this highly sophisticated encryption
technology will be bundled in a conditional access system
for both broadcast and interactive applications.  This
means carriers and MSOs will have a much better way to
manage conditional access issues."

The PowerKEY system's implementation of RSA algorithms
and Cylink Corporation's "Stanford patents" (licensing of
which was also announced today by Scientific-Atlanta) is
designed to be compatible with global open standards,
such as MPEG, DVB and DAVIC.

RSA developed and patented a method of exchanging
authenticated secret messages without exchanging secret
keys.  Most encryption systems rely on the sender of a
message or document to know the receiver's "secret key." 
The more parties a secret key is distributed to, the more
vulnerable it becomes to unauthorized use.  With RSA's
"public key" approach, a person's public key can be made
available to any interested party to send that person a
private message.  There is no need to privately exchange
secret keys.  For other parts of the electronic network
services application, such as digital video transmission,
the PowerKEY system will employ proven private key
algorithms that provide high-speed operation and
excellent signal security.

RSA Data Security is a leading cryptographic research and
development firm.  Its products focus on the secure
creation, transmission and storage of data, as well as
authenticating the author of data.  RSA provides software
developers with its BSAFE(TM) cryptography engine, which
includes multiple algorithms and modules for adding
encryption and authentication features to any
application. Scientific-Atlanta plans to use RSA's
engines for development of some elements of the PowerKEY
system.

Scientific-Atlanta is a leader in providing conditional
access systems for broadband and satellite communications
networks.  Its Vari-Axis(TM) analog descrambling systems
are deployed in millions of analog set-tops, and a
robust, secret-key digital conditional access system,
based on proven BMAC technology, is part of the
PowerVu(TM) system family of products.  The PowerKEY
system will expand Scientific-Atlanta's product line to
include the industry's first conditional access system to
utilize public key cryptography.

Scientific-Atlanta, Inc. (http://www.sciatl.com) is a
leading supplier of broadband communications systems,
satellite-based video, voice and data communications
networks and worldwide customer service and support.  The
company is the Official Broadband Video Distribution
Sponsor of the 1996 Olympic Games in Atlanta, Georgia.






{% endraw %}
```

## Thread

+ Return to [January 1996](/archive/1996/01)

+ Return to "[nobody<span>@</span>REPLAY.COM (Anonymous)](/authors/nobody_at_replay_com_anonymous_)"

+ 1996-01-10 (Wed, 10 Jan 1996 09:13:44 +0800) - Sci-Atlanta Uses RSA - _nobody@REPLAY.COM (Anonymous)_

