---
layout: default
---

# 1996-01-09 - NSA Rigs Win NT to B

## Header Data

From: nobody<span>@</span>REPLAY.COM (Anonymous)<br>
To: cypherpunks@toad.com<br>
Message Hash: 34615b2ea041885a7bbb7dcfb896ccfdb50a6a0032220a7064dc2d528b79195c<br>
Message ID: \<199601090127.CAA14816@utopia.hacktic.nl\><br>
Reply To: _N/A_<br>
UTC Datetime: 1996-01-09 02:04:07 UTC<br>
Raw Date: Tue, 9 Jan 1996 10:04:07 +0800<br>

## Raw message

```
{% raw  %}From: nobody@REPLAY.COM (Anonymous)
Date: Tue, 9 Jan 1996 10:04:07 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: NSA Rigs Win NT to B
Message-ID: <199601090127.CAA14816@utopia.hacktic.nl>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Global Internet Wins NSA Contract for Windows NT Security
Enhancement

Feasibility Study to Analyze B-Level Security
Requirements

Palo Alto, Calif., Jan. 8 -- Global Internet today
announced that the National Security Agency has awarded
them a contract to conduct a feasibility study on raising
the security level of Windows NT 3.51 to B-level.  Global
Internet will analyze Windows NT's ability to meet
B-level security requirements, as well as develop a
software prototype that demonstrates a Fortezza-based
cryptocard access control mechanism.

The contract was granted by the NSA under the Multilevel
Information System Security Initiative (MISSI), which has
the charter to provide security services for information
ranging from Unclassified but Sensitive up to and
including Top Secret.  Windows NT was originally designed
with security in mind.  A NSA evaluation team has
determined that Windows NT 3.5 with Service Pack 3
satisfies all class C-2 security requirements.  B-level
of security strengthens the C2 level security features
while providing stricter system assurances.

Global Internet has a proven expertise with Windows NT. 
Centri TNT is the only network security solution that is
fully integrated into Windows NT TCP/IP networks by
complementing and extending Windows NT's inherent
strengths, while maintaining 100% compatibility with
existing applications.  Global Internet also has
extensive experience architecting, designing and
developing high level secure operating systems.

"This project addresses anticipated security requirements
for DOD, as well as commercial customers using Windows
NT," said Michelle Ruppel, a director of the Global
Internet Software Group.  "Our analysis will address
compatibility issues with B-level security requirements
and identify the changes necessary to provide this level
of support."

According to Outlink, Inc., a New York-based research and
publishing firm focusing on the information security
market, about 80% of the PC hardware market supports
Microsoft's DOS and Windows 3.1.  This combination,
though popular, does not provide inherent security
features such as secure login, access control, auditing
and self-protection. Strong access control is a highly
desirable function of the MISSI architecture.  Trusted
Operating Systems will play a role in the MISSI success.

Windows NT is a modular OS and combined with its current
security features that are based on the Trusted Products
Evaluation Program (TPEP) C2 level of security and it's
ability to operate on the majority of customer platforms
while supporting DOS and Windows applications, the
architecture lends itself to support B-level
requirements.

An operating system with few security features allows
anyone to use the machine without validating their
identity, while allowing access to all files, objects and
resources.  C2 level security includes: auditing to allow
security-relevant events to be recorded and monitored,
discretionary (need-to-know) access controls to mediate
who can access (read or write) files and other objects
and identification and authentication (login) to require
users to identify themselves to the system before they
are allowed to use the system.

B-level security additionally includes: labeling of
users, files and other objects with a sensitivity label,
mandatory access controls to enforce a security policy
based on the labels of the users and objects and trusted
path that ensures users they are using the actual
programs provided with the system.

The Global Internet Software Group specializes in
security software for Windows NT networks and other
operating environments.  The Software Group is a division
of Global Internet, a full-service internetworking
solutions company focusing on secure, reliable
internetworking software and services.  Located in Palo
Alto, California, Global Internet is privately held and
was founded in 1993.  Global Internet Home Page:
http://www.gi.net.





{% endraw %}
```

## Thread

+ Return to [January 1996](/archive/1996/01)

+ Return to "[nobody<span>@</span>REPLAY.COM (Anonymous)](/authors/nobody_at_replay_com_anonymous_)"
+ Return to "[Rich Graves <llurch<span>@</span>networking.stanford.edu>](/authors/rich_graves_llurch_at_networking_stanford_edu_)"

+ 1996-01-09 (Tue, 9 Jan 1996 10:04:07 +0800) - NSA Rigs Win NT to B - _nobody@REPLAY.COM (Anonymous)_
  + 1996-01-09 (Tue, 9 Jan 1996 10:27:03 +0800) - [Re: NSA Rigs Win NT to B](/archive/1996/01/5fadde28af7a4fb80d5bcc5b0693a3afb5c5dfeca87dc8b0d3ad5854c05f5280) - _Rich Graves \<llurch@networking.stanford.edu\>_

