---
layout: default
---

# 1996-09-09 - AST Final Agenda

## Header Data

From: "Dave Banisar" \<banisar<span>@</span>epic.org\><br>
To: "Privacy International" \<pi@privacy.org\><br>
Message Hash: 11c1b07b5c9bc39f014ffb2fe2cdac9006e7c39a7500fc87abff846f379be9cb<br>
Message ID: \<n1369897001.39121@epic.org\><br>
Reply To: _N/A_<br>
UTC Datetime: 1996-09-09 08:01:16 UTC<br>
Raw Date: Mon, 9 Sep 1996 16:01:16 +0800<br>

## Raw message

```
{% raw  %}From: "Dave Banisar" <banisar@epic.org>
Date: Mon, 9 Sep 1996 16:01:16 +0800
To: "Privacy International" <pi@privacy.org>
Subject: AST Final Agenda
Message-ID: <n1369897001.39121@epic.org>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Hello,

I hope you will be able to join us for our conference in Ottawa next week.
Here is the final agenda.

Dave

                                  PROGRAM

               ADVANCED SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGIES CONFERENCE II

                                Sponsored by

                            Privacy International
                     Electronic Privacy Information Center

                             September 16, 1996
                                    
                   Citadel Ottawa Hotel and Convention Centre
                                Ottawa, Canada


9:00 am COFFEE AND REGISTRATION

9:30 am WELCOME AND INTRODUCTION:  NURTURING THE SURVEILLANCE SOCIETY

Advanced surveillance functions have become an integral part of widescale
information systems used by governments and businesses. Monitoring of the
activities of individuals is seen as a  desirable - and often technically
essential - componennt in many of these  systems. Once regarded as
purpose-built stand alone innovations, the modern surveillance device for
identification, profiling or tracking has been re-invented as a tool for
commercial leverage. In these introductory remarks, Simon Davies and Dave
Banisar explores the key technical, political, cultural and legal changes
that are nurturing the growth of surveillance technologies across the
world.

        o Simon Davies, London School of Economics & Director General, Privacy
International

        oDave Banisar, Electronic Privacy Information Center & editor,
International Privacy Bulletin

10:15 am FEATURED SPEAKER:  SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGIES OF THE INTELLIGENCE
AGENCIES

What kinds of technologies are the intelligence agencies of the world
using? Who are they using it against? Are they legally accountable for
their actions? Mike Frost, a former spy for the Canadian Security
Establishment will talk about his experiences using these technologies to
spy on Canadian citizens and the relationship of the CSE to the US National
Security Agency.

        o Mike Frost, Former Intelligence Officer, Canadian Communications
Security Establishment & author, Spyworld

11:00 am BREAK

11:15 am SURVEILLANCE AND THE INTERNET 

SIGINT ONLINE: GOVERNMENT SIGNALS INTELLIGENCE ON THE NET
        o Wayne Madsen, Author, Handbook of Personal Data Protection

>From Fort Meade, Maryland to Cheltenham, England and from Canberra,
Australia to Issy les Moulineaux in Paris, signals intelligence (SIGINT)
specialists are honing their skills at monitoring digital information.
SIGINT agencies everywhere are increasingly throwing their surveillance web
over the Internet and other data networks of interest. This session shall
examine the methods by which SIGINT agencies conduct such on-line
intelligence-gathering activities, including manipulation of encryption
systems to exploiting weaknesses in communications architectures, including
the use of anonymous remailers, rigging encryption systems, and tampering
with the simple network management protocol (SNMP). You will discover that
Mae West is more than just a deceased movie star.


Datamining the Net: Cookies, Crawlers and Trackers
        o Simson Garfinkel, author, Practical Unix and Internet Security and
PGP: Pretty Good Privacy.

A great deal of information is gathered on individuals on the Internet.
>From Alta Vista to cookies to digital cash to Web Crawler, sophicated tools
to collect, index and process this information are being developed.  Simson
Garfinkel will discuss these technologies, what information is being
gathered and what is being done with it.


12:30 pm  LUNCH (provided)

1:30 pm CONSUMERS AND SURVEILLANCE

 INTELLIGENT VEHICLES AND TRACKING

Phil Agre will outline the remarkable variety of technologies of
surveillance currently being planned or implemented for road travel. The
motivations for these systems are numerous and include logistics, traffic
management, law enforcement, pollution control, and marketing. Despite the
diversity of motivations, certain unifying themes emerge. The vast majority
of the functionalities provided by these systems can be provided
anonymously.

        o Phil Agre, University of California, San Diego

GENETICS AS A SURVEILLANCE IDEOLOGY

Researches in the field of genetics are still largely dominated by the
works of molecular biologists who tend to comprehend reality through the
classical Cartesian-Newtonian paradigm which postulates that it is possible
to reduce the universe to a mechanical model in which peticular effects can
be described as the direct results of specific causes. Such an approach
does not acknowledge the fact that human physical and mental health is the
result of very complex interactions. Most illnesses and deviant behaviors
are multifactorial (physical and social environments are at least as much
important as the genetic factors) and polygenic (numerous genes could be
involved). In short, there are large  probabilities that an individual
carrying many "defective" genes may never develop the corresponding
illness. Unfortunately, such fields of activities such as risk management,
insurance, law and policy-making also work mostly within the
Cartesian-Newtonian paradigm. In such a context, genetics can easily be
transformed into an ideological justification for surveillance and social
control of populations or individuals "at risk" as well as minimizing
social and environmental responsabilities.

        o Pierrot Peladeau,  Progesta Inc. & editor Privacy Files

2:45 pm BREAK

3:00 pm SOLUTIONS: PROTECTING PRIVACY IN SURVEILLANCE SOCIETIES

A PRIVACY COMMISSIONER CASE STUDY: INTRODUCTION OF A DNA PROFILE DATABANK TO 
NEW ZEALAND

Bruce Slane, Privacy Commissioner of New Zealand, will outline aspects of a
new law which came into force in New Zealand last month. The law sanctions
the establishment of a DNA profile database for police use in criminal
investigations. The law also spells out how blood samples may be obtained
from suspects for DNA analysis - voluntarily, by court order, and
ultimately by force if need be. Bruce will explain the role of a Privacy
Commissioner in scrutinising laws increasing state surveillance using the
DNA law as a case study.

        o Bruce Slane. New Zealand Privacy Commissioner

CAN PRIVACY STANDARDS ACHIEVE EFFECTIVE DATA PROTECTION?

Privacy standards are becoming an important feature of the privacy
protection landscape.  The CSA Model Code for the Protection of Personal
Information is likely to followed by other attempts to negotiate standards
in other countries and at the international level.   What are the market
and regulatory incentives for the adoption of privacy standards?   Can
privacy standards exist alongside data protection legislation?  What are
the minimum requirements for a registration/accreditation system for a
privacy standard?

        o Colin Bennett, University of Victoria

4:30 pm WRAPUP


----------------------------------------------------------------------------

MORE INFORMATION

More information on the conference will be available at the Privacy
International mailing list at pi-news@privacy.org (subject: subscribe) or
at the PI Home Page at http://www.privacy.org/pi/conference/ottawa/

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

REGISTRATION

Registration Fees

[] Standard - $250 CAN ($175 US)
[] Non-profit organizations/Educational - $125 CAN ($75 US)

Information

Name:     ___________________________________________________________

Organization:  ______________________________________________________

Address:    _________________________________________________________
 
   __________________________________________________________________

Phone/Fax:  _________________________________________________________

Electronic Mail:_____________________________________________________

Credit card Number/Expiration Date: _________________________________
 (Your credit card will be billed by "Diane Publishing" - Do Not Email!)

First Virtual Account (include email address)_________________________


Fax Registration form and credit card number to +1 202.547.5482

Send Check or Money Order in $US made out to Privacy International to:

        Privacy International Washington Office
        666 Pennsylvania Ave, SE, Suite 301
        Washington, DC 20003 USA
        1-202-544-9240 (phone)
        1-202-547-5482 (fax)
        pi@privacy.org(email)

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Privacy International was formed in 1990 as a watchdog on surveillance by
governments and corporations.  With members in more than 40 countries, it
has created an international movement that has helped to counter abuses of
privacy by way of information technology. Privacy International has
conducted campaigns in Europe, Asia and North America to raise awareness
about the dangers of ID card systems, military surveillance, data matching,
police information systems, and credit reporting.  It is based in London,
UK, and is administered by the Electronic Privacy Information Center (EPIC)
in Washington, D.C. Privacy International  publishes a quarterly newsletter
(the International Privacy Bulletin) and organizes conferences each year on
privacy and technology. More information is available at
http://www.privacy.org/pi/

The Electronic Privacy Information Center is a public interest research
center in Washington, DC. It was established in 1994 to focus public
attention on emerging privacy issues relating to the National Information
Infrastructure, such as the Clipper Chip, the Digital Telephony proposal,
medical record privacy, and the sale of consumer data. EPIC is sponsored by
the Fund for Constitutional Government, a non-profit organization
established in 1974 to protect civil liberties and constitutional rights.
EPIC publishes the EPIC Alert, pursues Freedom of Information Act
litigation, and conducts policy research. For more information, email
info@epic.org, HTTP://www.epic.org or write EPIC, 666 Pennsylvania Ave.,
SE, Suite 301, Washington, DC 20003. +1 202 544 9240 (tel), +1 202 547 5482
(fax).









{% endraw %}
```

## Thread

+ Return to [September 1996](/archive/1996/09)

+ Return to "["Dave Banisar" <banisar<span>@</span>epic.org>](/author/dave_banisar_banisar_at_epic_org_)"

+ 1996-09-09 (Mon, 9 Sep 1996 16:01:16 +0800) - AST Final Agenda - _"Dave Banisar" \<banisar@epic.org\>_

