---
layout: default
---

# 1996-04-24 - Cashless Society and the Coming Collapse

## Header Data

From: nobody<span>@</span>REPLAY.COM (Anonymous)<br>
To: cypherpunks@toad.com<br>
Message Hash: f697d91721b137d823a1d010ac975f6262311e4bfab7f441bbd8f4e45b28b84a<br>
Message ID: \<199604242124.XAA14247@utopia.hacktic.nl\><br>
Reply To: _N/A_<br>
UTC Datetime: 1996-04-24 21:25:22 UTC<br>
Raw Date: Wed, 24 Apr 1996 14:25:22 -0700 (PDT)<br>

## Raw message

```
{% raw  %}From: nobody@REPLAY.COM (Anonymous)
Date: Wed, 24 Apr 1996 14:25:22 -0700 (PDT)
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Cashless Society and the Coming Collapse
Message-ID: <199604242124.XAA14247@utopia.hacktic.nl>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


http://www.jcave.com/~whedonr/news2.htm


The Cashless Society

The October 31 issue of Information Week featured an article on the
October 13 acquisition of Intuit Inc. by Microsoft Corporation for 1.5
billion dollars. Their vision is to create a world where all financial
transaction are performed electronically. "Microsoft's vision of the
future is clearly a world in which the majority of consumer and
business transactions will take place online". Other companies are also
rushing to enter the electronic transaction market place. Soon, there
will simply be no need for cash, everything will be done on line.
Automatic debits and credits from your bank and credit accounts will be
performed in a few milliseconds. You will be able to purchase nearly
anything in the world from your home via the electronic transaction.
(Since the original writing of this article, Microsoft did not receive
approval to make this merger with Intuit. However, the vision of
Microsoft stays the same).

America is already now seeing a widespread use of the "intelligent"
smart cards. These cards are being used for telecommunications, medical
information purchases, identification, and more. Western Union now
offers a smartcard that you can purchase to make long distance
telephone calls. The military has been issuing smartcards for some time
now to all of it's personnel. California is issuing smartcards to all
recipients of state benefits, including Social Security and welfare
benefits. The federal government is considering plans to implement a
smartcard for it's 3.1 million members for payroll purposes.

This proliferation of smartcards has not been without it's perceived
benefits. However, this new technology has created another problem,
namely security. The security offered by the smartcard is not
sufficient. Fraud, theft and abuse of smartcard technology has prompted
for many officials to call for a more secure and personal means of
transactions. A single card, useable anywhere in the world is being
considered. But even this presents problems with the issue of security
and privacy.

An improvement on smartcard technology is now being formulated. For
several years, microchips have been tested in animals to learn their
effects, efficiencies and drawbacks. This technology is now perfected
for use in humans. Instead of carrying several different types of
smartcards, credit cards and identification, we are soon to be offered
a single implanted chip that can contain information about us that
anybody ever needs to know.

Not until the last few years, has technology advance to the point where
implantation of a microchip was possible within human flesh. This is a
fulfillment of prophecy, for the Bible says "And he causeth all, both
small and great, rich and poor, free and bond, to receive a mark in
their right hand, or in their forehead" (Rev. 13:16).

Only very recently has technology made it possible to make such a mark
in human flesh. With the widespread usage of computers and databases,
tracking individuals and every financial transaction has now become a
reality.

These tiny chips are already being produced by the millions and
millions today for a variety of electronic devices, including
smartcards. We are on the verge of having these chips implanted in
every human being. Are you prepared to take your mark?


The Coming Collapse

Another deceptive lie being propagated by the government and the media
is our economy. The rate of unemployed workers in this country is being
reported to us at only 3%. However, many private sources of information
have this number much higher, closer to 9-10%. Some goes so far as to
say unemployement is really 20%! Our government cannot afford the bad
publicity of a recession. Statistics prove that nearly every major
corporation has been downsizing staff by the thousands and thousands.
Nearly 1 million positions have been abolished since the first of the
year. Yet in the face of all this, our government continues to tell us
that our economy is booming.

Our federal deficit is also much higher then is being commonly
reported. Deficit spending under President Clinton is at an all time
high.

Simply put, our nation cannot afford to continue on it's present course
of overspending. In a report presented to President Reagan, a
commission of 31 Congressmen stated that the United States would
experience a financial collapse by the year 2012. Some forecasted that
this coming collapse would happen by the year 2005.

Consumer debt in America is the highest consumer debt in the history of
the world, bar none. Many Americans live off of credit cards, always
getting deeper and deeper into debt. The media portrays a fictitious
world where we can "afford" anything. And if we don't want to "buy,
buy, buy", then we are somehow dysfunctional or inadequate.

The average American family has to work two jobs just to make ends
meet. While our purchasing power continues to decline for every dollar
we earn, there's always something new to buy. We are beset by self
centeredness, self grandizement and narcissistic "needs". In a never
ending downward spiral, we chase the holy grail of material wealth,
urged on by the prophets of the press.

Financial ruin, broken families, despair, hopelessness and stress
related disease are often the end results. Thousands turn to alternate
realities, including drugs, alcohol, adulterous relationships and other
means of "release" from these financial pressures.

America has been teetering on the brink of a financial disaster,
unparalleled in human history. Efforts to avoid this collapse include
the establishment of a new monetary system, including the issuing of
new money. Currently, entire caravans of this newly minted money are
being distributed around the country. A national and international
recall of $100 dollar bills was proposed by Senators Patrick Leahy and
John Kerry. This recall may quite possibly trigger the greatest
financial collapse the world has ever seen. This financial collapse
could be triggered overnight when mass panic, fear and distrust in the
new monetary system becomes widespread.





{% endraw %}
```

## Thread

+ Return to [April 1996](/archive/1996/04)

+ Return to "[nobody<span>@</span>REPLAY.COM (Anonymous)](/authors/nobody_at_replay_com_anonymous_)"

+ 1996-04-24 (Wed, 24 Apr 1996 14:25:22 -0700 (PDT)) - Cashless Society and the Coming Collapse - _nobody@REPLAY.COM (Anonymous)_

