---
layout: default
---

# 1997-11-03 - Re: Privacy Software

## Header Data

From: Mix \<mixmaster<span>@</span>remail.obscura.com\><br>
To: cypherpunks@cyberpass.net<br>
Message Hash: ec710a89067964c9b450411ba2a9d2ff536dfacb539d54852d8f95df6d2fece4<br>
Message ID: \<199711031141.DAA01497@sirius.infonex.com\><br>
Reply To: _N/A_<br>
UTC Datetime: 1997-11-03 11:59:20 UTC<br>
Raw Date: Mon, 3 Nov 1997 19:59:20 +0800<br>

## Raw message

```
{% raw  %}From: Mix <mixmaster@remail.obscura.com>
Date: Mon, 3 Nov 1997 19:59:20 +0800
To: cypherpunks@cyberpass.net
Subject: Re: Privacy Software
Message-ID: <199711031141.DAA01497@sirius.infonex.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----

Adam Back wrote:
>Monty Cantsin writes:
>> The PGP source code is not the worst I've ever seen, but it's kind of
>> odd.  
>
>I had a go at doing something with it (I'll let you know when I get
>it to work) -- I had the damnest job figuring out what was going on.
>The problem I found with understanding it were all of the nested
>functions called through vectors of functions and handler functions.
>Makes it hard to inspect what will happen without running the code
>under a debugger -- lots control flow is decided at run time.

So in other words, even though we have the source code we don't really
have confidence that we can tell what it is doing.

Even though the source code is available, I don't think it has been
studied all that carefully.  For example, hardly anybody knew that the
PGP 5.0 source had CAK features lurking in it.  Or, remember that bug
with the random number generator?  As I recall (i.e., feel free to
correct me), it was in Colin Plumb's code and he found it himself.
This would imply that it got by whoever went over the code when it was
released.  Not reassuring.

C is a big part of the problem.  Also, PGP was originally designed to
operate on some fairly slow machines and they tried very hard to
optimize the hell out of it.  Now, however, cycles are a lot cheaper.
I think we should give up speed for clarity.  Slow code that we can
really trust is better.

And, the PGP code does a bunch of careful things which complicate it
like burning the stack all the time.  In my judgement, this is
misplaced.  If you don't trust the platform you are using you can't
fix it in your encryption code.

>> We should consider a rewrite, which gives us the added benefit that
>> it will be completely unencumbered.
>
>Sounds maybe worth doing.

It's at least worth talking about.  Hashing out the design is a good
exercise and it can inspire other people when they are designing their
own crypto systems.

>> It also gives us the opportunity to write it in a language other than
>> C, one which truly supports encapsulation.  C code is hard to verify
>> with great confidence because it is possible to obfuscate it and
>> introduce security holes.  This means that C requires one to trust the
>> authors to a greater extent than is desirable.
>
>Some C programmers do have fun writing obfuscated chicken scratchings,
>but you _can_ write C code optimised for readability.

What's really bad is that any part of the code can betray the rest.
Let's say you had somebody who was really very good who wanted to
weaken things.  All he or she has to do is have a little obfuscated
code someplace that undermines the majority of nicely designed and
implemented C code.

A truly encapsulated language is a lot easier to verify because if
none of the magic functions exist in the code (easy to check), you can
be confident that when you have verified one piece of code that the
other pieces can't interfere.

>What language did you have in mind?  modula-3?  iso-pascal/borland
>pascal?

Hadn't thought of Modula-3, but that is an excellent idea.  Java would
be a candidate, although performance is an issue.  There's been some
good buzz around about Ada.  It might perform well and it's here to
stay.  Is Modula-3 being used in any serious way by anybody?  If it
is, let's consider it.  (I think there is a Modula-3 -> C compiler out
there someplace, which means it's totally portable.)

A good language choice would probably save a lot of time.

>> The whole issue of compatibility is an interesting one.  Would it be a
>> good idea to have a cryptographic system which was completely
>> incompatible with PGP, given the Big Brother risk?
>
>Theoretically perhaps, however I'm not sure a system will get very far
>unless it can automatically interoperate with pgp2.x and 5.x.

It would be nice to just shed the PGP baggage for the moment and think
about how we would do a system from scratch for our own uses.

Ultimately, this system could reside in an application which also
speaks PGP.  Or, it could just be its own thing.

>You could build something which did the right thing automatically
>based on public key types:
>
>hypothetical cpunks mail system (HCMS)

We should use the acronym CMR.  (Cypherpunk Message Remodel?
Suggestions invited.)

>HCMS -> pgp2.x   use RSA/MD5/IDEA and pgp2.x message formats
>HCMS -> pgp5.x   use DSA/EG/3DES/SHA1 and pgp5.x message formats
>HCMS -> HCMS     use whatever goodies you want, stego, mixmaster, etc.

CMR nee HCMS should be an independent system.  The mail system you are
using should decide whether to use it or some other system depending
on the correspondent.

While it may seem crazy to toss compatibility, it has some advantages.
For instance, the only people who will use it are the hardcore types.
I like the idea of an exclusive crypto system that only cool people
who are fairly with it use.

What do you think about mandating a key size?  I like the idea that
use of the protocol communicates "I am very serious about my privacy."
It's also slightly cripple resistant.  (And, were I to consider mass
market concerns which I am not, I would say that it makes it easier
for the user to make the right choice.)

How about finding a way to eliminate indicators?  It's nice not to
leak any information at all.  It also makes super-encryption stronger.
If each encrypted layer looks like noise, the total key size is the
sum of the bits of each layer.

One way to eliminate indicators is through the prior agreement of the
meaning of random bits.  In effect, you can say "when you see
0x234B4D234F, it means, outside layer RSA/IDEA, middle layer
3DES/SHA1, and inner layer the Captain Crunch decoder ring."  This
information can be exchanged at the time of key authentication,
securely, by telling your correspondent how you are encrypting
everything.  Later, you can send more random bits when the tank starts
getting low.

Super-encryption is something we should do more of.  Let's say we
believe, conservatively, that any particular cipher we are using has a
10% chance of falling in a particular year.  In ten years, that's a
35% chance of compromise.  But if three different ciphers are used,
there is only a 4% chance that it will fall in a decade.

Super-encryption has been unpopular because it takes too long.
However, if you are using a modern OS, even if it takes five minutes
running in the background it's just not a big deal.

It doesn't seem unreasonable to me to break out authentication from
the communication protocol.  Strictly speaking they are not the same
thing.  Both programs can be called by the same message composition
program.  This naturally leads to using separate communications and
authentication keys.

I am not fond of PGP's signature design.  The "BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE"
stuff clutters things up.  How about a one line signature with a
previous character count?  Note that this wraps beautifully without
modifying the message itself.  It's unobtrusive.

ASCII armor also sets off alarms with me, but I'm not sure exactly how
to solve this problem.  It seems right to define protocols in terms of
full 8 bit bytes.  Perhaps just uuencoding encrypted messages is the
way to go?

For authentication, it would probably be okay to define an ASCII mode.

I think key management is good to think of as a separate application.
The right way to do this isn't clear, yet.  The Web of Trust is a neat
idea, but I think the concept is flawed because you are unlikely to
tell something sensitive to somebody you wouldn't (or couldn't)
authenticate yourself.  Ultimately it relies on things like driver's
licenses issued by Big Brother, which is terrible.

>> Something I've never liked about PGP is their approach to encrypting
>> to multiple keys.  For one thing, the PGP crowd seems overly
>> conservative with bit expenditure, which is silly because bits are
>> cheap.  This means that creating entirely separate messages is
>> completely economical.
>
>This is more secure I agree.  The real kicker with this problem is
>people who turn on encrypt to self -- I don't want messages with
>encrypt to self (an extra door into the message) on them in my
>mailbox, nor coming over the wire headed to me.
>
>You can see the reason for multiple recipient though -- it's too ease
>integration into mailers -- you can process the message and give it
>back to the mailer, and then it can still send the message To: x, y;
>Cc: z.

But this is just bad design if you care about security in a serious
way.  Even assuming you have to reveal who you are sending the message
to, why reveal that three messages are related to each other?

This is yet another mass market issue.  If we were to do it the right
way, all the mail header fields would be contained inside the
encryption envelope.

>Doing away with multiple crypto recipient risk is more an issue of MUA
>integration than rabid conservation of bits.

I'll buy that.

>> So, perhaps a protocol which does not support anything more than one
>> encryption key per message would be a good idea.
>
>You don't have to use it.  I tend not to.  I never use encrypt to
>self, and I get annoyed with people who send me messages encrypt to
>themselves, and very rarely do I use Cc on encrypted messages.

If the protocol doesn't accept multiple keys for a message it is
slightly CAK/GAK resistent.  And, it's a nice statement of intent.
It's also nice to have tools which help you to behave securely without
carefully thinking about it when you are using them.

>> And, I wonder if compression doesn't actually weaken security?  Let's
>> say I forward a known message with some commentary.  Since the
>> compression tables will be known, it seems like the increased size of
>> the message could provide some interesting information about the
>> preceding commentary.  All by itself, this probably doesn't matter,
>> but combined with other information it might result in a breach.  In
>> any event, that which is ambiguous should be eliminated.
>
>I don't understand this comment.

Let's say it is known with high probability that I am forwarding a
particular message with some unknown prefacing comments.  It seems to
me that (possibly) some information is be revealed by the size of
the compressed encrypted text.

That is, the known message will compress to a different size depending
on your prefacing comments.

For example, if I use lots of words that are in the known message, it
will compress very well.  The result will be significantly smaller
than if I use words that never appear in the known message.  This
might not be a problem, but I don't like "mights".

Also, I like things which are really orthogonal.  There's no
particular reason for the compression to be part of an encryption
program, if you use it at all.

>One thing that some people don't realise is that the plaintext gets
>mixed into the random pool as an additional source of entropy.  In
>automated environments (lots of MUAs which set +batchmode), this is
>all the entropy you'll get -- except for the original key presses to
>generate the key, and a small bit of entropy from the system clock.
>
>It's fairly good normally because the way entropy is mixed in is a one
>way function of the randseed.bin based on IDEA.  To make use of this
>an attacker would need a copy of your randseed.bin before you sent the
>target message, and to have suspicions of what the message is.  Even
>after a few known messages it would still likely be possible to
>attack, because the entropy added by the clock is partly predictable
>from the message headers Date: field, and because it isn't that much
>entropy each time.

The randseed.bin file has always bothered me.  What we really want is
some good sources of entropy in which we have tremendous confidence.

Also, if you signed the message the Date: field won't be needed.  This
is bad design, in my opinion.  A signature and a time stamp are two
different things.  For instance, I would prefer not to time stamp my
messages as it reveals the state of my clock and the transit time of
the messages I send.

>> It would also be nice if the messages were padded to predetermined
>> sizes, say 10K, 20K, 40K, etc.  (Once compression is eliminated this
>> is less of an issue.)
>
>It would be nice to have a system where you send 100k and receive 100k
>per day regardless.  Say in 10 10k packets which get poured into a
>mixmaster node.

Yes, this would be good.  Although, I would think of this as being on
a higher level than the encryption program itself.  Probably we want
an entire communications management program which tracks everything
you've sent and analyzes your activity for weaknesses.

>> How about a one time pad mode?  One time pads are more practical than
>> widely believed.  Many things we talk about we *do* want to keep quiet
>> for the rest of our natural lives.  
>
>Right.
>
>The problem with this is that you need random numbers.  How do you
>generate them?

You only need to generate keys once in awhile.  This means that you
can go to some trouble when doing it.  For instance, you might have
some hardware which is not routinely connected to your machine.

>If you use PGP's random pool, one suspects that if IDEA becomes
>attackable at some point in the future the random pool will start to
>look more like a predictable PRNG to the attacker.
>
>I wonder how good linux's /dev/urandom would be if MD5 becomes even
>more suspect.

Well, neither of these would be good for a one time pad, of course.
It would be neat to have, say, three sources of hardware randomness
and then XOR the result with the above pseudo random output.

It's hard to recognize non-randomness, so some overkill is good
practice.

BTW, it would be nice if PGP or CMR/HCMS would let you supply bits of
entropy by hand.  It takes awhile to generate 128 bits by hand, but
for some things it would be worth it.

>> It's clear that going the corporate route has to be handled with some
>> care.  Given the political implications, investors have certain risks.
>> 
>> Also, many people seem to switch into a different mode as soon as they
>> have a company.  Anything which they perceive as increasing their
>> profits becomes good.  PGP, Inc. has gone this way, we've seen First
>> Virtual do some unsavory things, 
>
>What did FV do?  I know they don't use encryption, and Nathaniel
>Borenstein wrote a few hype-hype articles about the _gasp_ newly
>discovered security danger of "key board sniffers".

The hype article was what I had in mind.  I doubt very much that
Borenstein would ever have been involved with such a thing outside a
corporation.  It seems to have a bad effect on some people.

The problem is, you don't always know where that bad effect stops once
you've noticed it.

>> and even good old C2 has made a few people uncomfortable.
>
>Only thing slightly negative C2 did was to make a dubious decision in
>handling of Mr Nemesis's fabricated claims about stronghold flaws.
>C2 still rocks, though right?

Comme ci, comme ca.  The libel suit business was uncool.  Also, there
was a press release relating to one of the cracks which was somewhat
misleading, I thought.  C2 has shown some symptoms of institutional
paranoia, which is bad.  Sameer's comments along the lines of "this
isn't some cypherpunk hobby" are also not reassuring.  All of these
things arise from being in a corporation.

The problem is that I'm not tapping their phones.  I don't really know
what they are thinking or doing.  When something happens that is
troubling, it's hard to restore trust.  I don't give C2 five stars.

That said, C2 has done some very good things.  People seem to like
Stronghold a lot.  It really is a secure product.  They publish their
source code.  I do like what they have to say in many of their press
releases and they are getting certain ideas into the mainstream.  (The
Forbes article, for instance.)

Sameer's one line comment "sell code" had a lot of influence on me,
too.

>> It doesn't have to be this way, of course.  Look at Comsec Partners.
>> We don't see any "conversation recovery", lying press releases, or any
>> other nonsense from them, just a beautiful product.
>
>Quite so.  C2 hasn't got "web traffic recovery" either :-)

No kidding.  Yes, C2 is miles above PGP, Inc. in my book.

But, Comsec gets the five stars.  They have never done anything or
said anything that gave me less than complete confidence.

>> What I like about selling software is that you could actually make
>> good living by doing the right thing.  And, after all, if you've spent
>> six months writing something, why shouldn't the users kick in a little
>> money instead of freeloading?  I would like to see more crypto users
>> in the habit of paying for tools and in the habit starting security
>> companies.
>
>New payment models will need to come in.  How can you extract money
>from a cryptoanarchist?  Copyright?  Patent?  Hah, hah.

The important thing is establishment of the custom.  Most
cryptoanarchists with class will pay.  The way to do this is to make
it clear from day one that it is not free software.  If you want to
run it, you should buy it.  (The problem with share ware is that people
get used to "borrowing" it.)

This should work well.  Cryptoanarchists, in my experience, have
pretty high integrity.  Some people will pirate, true, but that's
life.  Ironically, people who honestly discuss their skepticism of
intellectual property laws are probably less likely to pirate.

>If we get a real eternity service going (not the poor imitation perl
>script up now where all traffic goes through a server unless you
>install it locally) software copyright could become a thing of the
>past :-)
>
>Trust might be one way to go, rely on good will.  Or paying for
>technical support.  Or mixmaster, or DC net packet delivery postage
>charges.

These are good ideas.

You know, it would be cool to define a software architecture for
remailer software.  Different remailers have different properties and
different strategies.  They may continue to differentiate.

When you decided to trust a particular remailer, it could give you a
module of code with a standard external interface which prepares
messages for that particular remailer.

Putting your idea another way, the code is "free" but the remailers
cost money.

Monty Cantsin
Editor in Chief
Smile Magazine
http://www.neoism.org/squares/smile_index.html
http://www.neoism.org/squares/cantsin_10.htm

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: 2.6.2

iQEVAwUBNF1+s5aWtjSmRH/5AQFvHQf+PFXqriw8FoMMcsflEf1Jo55Myl94Luj8
UxSQ9YCq6+dedih7j/FJ3RLL0LtCTa7Sn6E/kGmgqzwcAcfzcjavpl7joNdHU9Yo
pS81mXeZ3kw34Nj1hbaX2j6Shx4+46uNUskfXThi6bz3lh1OM2hy7xF63blB2m1I
MVt786tah76UfveYlWR/MXK+ZN2DwUvejiPX+bP7vNqaDsXRyrW5mX1vVUuKf6po
5PRZ5wSMKQF/ULm7tOb/g8otoj2w84iir8kckLJiiSs4Xm3hk6+QbDVIhz31aPD3
D2PXIDEXz+x+Vtr5xPIurvpfEo5GpgFdMv5Ox1y796yHr6jjJ8BJjQ==
=rjFe
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----






{% endraw %}
```

## Thread

+ Return to [November 1997](/archive/1997/11)

+ Return to "[Adam Back <aba<span>@</span>dcs.ex.ac.uk>](/authors/adam_back_aba_at_dcs_ex_ac_uk_)"
+ Return to "[Bill Frantz <frantz<span>@</span>netcom.com>](/authors/bill_frantz_frantz_at_netcom_com_)"
+ Return to "[Mix <mixmaster<span>@</span>remail.obscura.com>](/authors/mix_mixmaster_at_remail_obscura_com_)"
+ Return to "[nospam-seesignature<span>@</span>ceddec.com](/authors/nospamseesignature_at_ceddec_com)"
+ Return to "[Tim May <tcmay<span>@</span>got.net>](/authors/tim_may_tcmay_at_got_net_)"

+ 1997-11-03 (Mon, 3 Nov 1997 19:59:20 +0800) - Re: Privacy Software - _Mix \<mixmaster@remail.obscura.com\>_
  + 1997-11-03 (Tue, 4 Nov 1997 06:17:50 +0800) - [Charityware](/archive/1997/11/29dbb580c8e476094761026864804677faf6af6003b00f3dc5b2d322c3889942) - _Tim May \<tcmay@got.net\>_
    + 1997-11-04 (Wed, 5 Nov 1997 06:54:32 +0800) - [Re: Charityware](/archive/1997/11/9f5913f450210196619440662cd7ff8286d25cb6c168b1889be43229f655f976) - _Adam Back \<aba@dcs.ex.ac.uk\>_
  + 1997-11-04 (Wed, 5 Nov 1997 06:53:21 +0800) - [Re: Privacy Software](/archive/1997/11/dcf0e952a4ee399026699b1162049026d80dc0b0d29d141ea1dfb772793da755) - _Adam Back \<aba@dcs.ex.ac.uk\>_
  + 1997-11-05 (Thu, 6 Nov 1997 01:46:28 +0800) - [Re: Privacy Software](/archive/1997/11/b5596f167acae07275d6e4e3eb9e7e1afbe39f3b61a224a33a75d8b745ddafbe) - _Bill Frantz \<frantz@netcom.com\>_
    + 1997-11-05 (Thu, 6 Nov 1997 03:06:27 +0800) - [entropy theft (Re: Privacy Software)](/archive/1997/11/0b60de05ddba19287029c0567869370503c573cb1be50393d7f9feb26b23df7a) - _Adam Back \<aba@dcs.ex.ac.uk\>_
  + 1997-11-11 (Wed, 12 Nov 1997 00:37:59 +0800) - [Re: Privacy Software](/archive/1997/11/1641c7b98f801fefd2d1ea5782525df4a82801818734486fe84189974a82f80e) - _nospam-seesignature@ceddec.com_

