---
layout: default
---

# 1997-11-03 - Why Jodi Hoffman must be called a 'Dumb Cunt' and told to 'Go Fuck Yourself' at all costs, by TruthMonger

## Header Data

From: TruthMonger \<tm@dev.null\><br>
To: declan@well.com<br>
Message Hash: fa4baf89c714e2dcfe82d28544f7c448da94d2dd07b04ca58083c5134db032b1<br>
Message ID: \<345E4500.5828@dev.null\><br>
Reply To: \<Pine.LNX.3.95.971103132429.23538B-100000@vorlon.mit.edu\><br>
UTC Datetime: 1997-11-03 22:10:39 UTC<br>
Raw Date: Tue, 4 Nov 1997 06:10:39 +0800<br>

## Raw message

```
{% raw  %}From: TruthMonger <tm@dev.null>
Date: Tue, 4 Nov 1997 06:10:39 +0800
To: declan@well.com
Subject: Why Jodi Hoffman must be called a 'Dumb Cunt' and told to 'Go Fuck Yourself' at all costs, by TruthMonger
In-Reply-To: <Pine.LNX.3.95.971103132429.23538B-100000@vorlon.mit.edu>
Message-ID: <345E4500.5828@dev.null>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



Having Tourette Syndrome can sometimes be a burden, particularly when
one goes through a long period where their obscene outbursts are serving
no particular purpose. So it is refreshing when I come across situations
where all of those huddled masses of naughty words, struggling to be
free, can be expressed in a meaningful manner, thus living a productive
life instead of being just wasted.

Declan McCullagh wrote:
> [Wow. First time I've ever been personally accused of being "a major
> reason for the downward spiral of society." --Declan]

  Rookie...
 
> ---------- Forwarded message ----------
> Date: Mon, 03 Nov 1997 11:53:27 -0500
> From: Jodi Hoffman <jlhoffm@ibm.net>
> To: fight-censorship@vorlon.mit.edu
> Subject: Why porn must be stopped at all costs.....
> 
> ALL:
> I've forgotten how long I've been on this email list.  Maybe too long.

  Don't let the door hit you in the ass on your way out.

> As I wander back through all the posts on this list, it finally dawns on
> me what this is all about, this 'fight censorship' rhetoric.  It's
> nothing more and nothing less than a lot of egotistical, self-serving
> brats who absolutely refuse to grow up, including you, Declan.  Don't
> you realize that YOU are a major reason for the downward spiral of
> society?

  Why do I get the feeling that this Dumb Cunt (TM) has 'all of the
answers' for society and everyone in it, and is about to share them 
with us?
  Well, if she expects us to listen to the divine wisdom of her
words from the mount, I guess she had better explain to us how we
are just dirt under her feet, so that we will realize we need to
listen and learn from her.

>  Instead of trying to protect children, you want to empower
> them.

  The shame! The shame!

>  Even a moron knows that when you do so, that power has to be
> taken from someone.  

  Typo...*should* read "Only a moron knows..."

>Unfortunately, that someone is the parent.  I have
> to ask myself just how many on this list have children.  Not many, I
> would say.

  That's right...you ask AND answer the questions, and we'll just 
sit here and shut the fuck up.

> Someone on this list, I forget who, has made numerous attempts at
> convincing us that pornography 'does no harm' to children.

  Does "numerous attempts at convincing" translate to "expressed an
opinion I disagreed with?"

>  It is
> exactly at this point that I must draw a line.  Studies have shown that
> an event which lasts even so much as three-tenths of a second, within
> five to ten minutes has produced a structural change in the brain.
> Exposure to porn causes actual brain damage, especially in a child.

  Good idea to make vague, unsubstantiated claims in this area. If you
provided sources and references, someone might be able to throw them
back in your face and laugh at you for being an ignorant sack of shit,
using self-serving 'studies' to support untenable logic.
 
> So, keep protecting your porn-induced orgasms.

  Protecting? Hell, I strive to share them with as many people as
possible. 

>  That's exactly what happened with the Hitler youth, etc...

  Uuhhh...you've got a 'study' to not-quote on this theory too, eh?

>  After all, I'm sure it does help
> to blur the lines of reality.

  This makes even less sense than the last sentence. Are you trying
to communicate propaganda that you don't fully understand?
  Perhaps you should just stick to slogans and sound-bytes, rather 
than trying to turn strings of disparate sentences into paragraphs.

<end of 'Windup'>
> =====================
<and here comes the 'Pitch'>

> Please PRINT THIS OUT and save for later reference.  Rules number 1
> through 7 have already been put into effect.  Rule number 8 is currently
> being implemented.  Numbers 9 and 10 are already in the beginning
> phases.   If you're not yet convinced that you are contributing to the
> ruination of America, I would hope you will be by the time you finish
> reading this.
> Paul and Jodi Hoffman
> Weston, Florida
> 
> "When an opponent declares, "I will not come over to your side", I
> calmly say, "Your child belongs to us already..."  --Adolph Hitler,
> speaking about the schools and their indoctrination of the Hilterjugend
> (Hitler Youth Corps).

  Are you positive this quote isn't from Eisenhower, in regard to the
American public educational system?

> ==================================================
> LENIN'S BLUEPRINT FOR WORLD DOMINATION
> These 'Rules' are meant to be a loose parody of the Ten Commandments,
> and are particularly emphasized at the Lenin School of Political
> Warfare.   They are practical rules that are being implemented all over
> the world -- with special emphasis on the strongest foe of Communism,
> the United States.
> Study these Rules very carefully. And then reflect upon what is
> happening in our society right now.   Perhaps this list will provide
> answers to some of the questions that seemed --until now -- to have no
> answers.
> Lenin himself said that it didn't matter that three-fourths of the world
> be destroyed, just so the remnant were good Communists.

  Are you sure this wasn't Nixon, taling about Vietnam and Democracy?
 
> RULE FOR REVOLUTION #1:     CORRUPT THE NATION'S YOUTH

  Alright! Party time!
 
> THE RULE:
> The future of any nation lies with its youth. So corrupt them; since
> religion teaches moral virtue, erode the churches and divert the young
> from religion. Make them interested only in themselves. Get them
> involved in drugs, alcohol, and sex. Get them addicted to privileges and
> rights.
>
> THE DUMB CUNT'S OPINION:
> Many of today's youth are grossly overprivileged, committed to fashion,
> physically flabby and lazy, and mentally undisciplined. If they don't
> want to do something, they simply will not do it. And if they want to do
> something to indulge themselves, no law or moral standard will hold them
> back.  They feel that they are entitled to the 'good things in life,'
> not as a reward for hard work, but as an expected gift, to be received
> without effort and even without asking.  And where do they learn such
> slovenliness? Just spend two hours in front of a television watching a
> random selection of situation comedies to find out. Unfortunately, kids
> who fit the above description usually model themselves after their
> parents.  Such parasitic habits would not be tolerated in the former
> Soviet Union.
> The prevailing attitude among today's pampered American youth is one of
> nihilism ( I am nothing, life has no meaning, I don't care) -- and for
> good reason.  Over 75 percent of America's high school boys now think
> it's acceptable to rape a girl at any age.  Wonder why anymore?

THE TRUTHMONGERING VERNACULAR TRANSLATION AND CRITIQUE:
  It sounds like the Dumb Cunt (TM) is suggesting that the former Soviet
Union would have been a better place to raise our kids.
  Yep, go to any high school and all the boys talk about is going over
to the maternity wing of the hospital and porking the little sluts as
they exit the womb. Honest! There are _studies_ that show this!

 > RULE FOR REVOLUTION #2:     CONTROL THE MASS MEDIA
> 
> THE RULE:
> Since the media shapes the minds of the people, infiltrate it and
> control it.  Dominate television, radio, and the newspapers, and you
> control the minds of the people.
>
> THE DUMB CUNT'S OPINION:
> It is quite obvious that traditional values are considered ridiculous to
> all branches of the media.   Christians, clergy, and even Christ Himself
> are held up as objects of scorn and mocking laughter by television,
> motion pictures, radio, artists, and songwriters.  In the place of
> decency and morality, a constant stream of Left-wing values is
> presented.
> Homosexuality, abortion, violence, and contempt for all parental and
> governmental authority is the prevailing order of the day.   A
> particularly powerful form of media is represented by the so-called
> "arts community."   Some latter-day "artists" actually make a
> pretty good living by mocking traditional values and Christianity.
> Consider Andres Sorrano's "Piss Christ" (a photograph of a crucifix
> submerged in urine) or Robert Mapplethorp's photos, which include one
> showing a bullwhip protruding out of his rear end.
> 
> This media bias is not a fantasy of a few right-wing whiners; this is
> cold, hard reality.
> The extreme leftward tilt of the media has been documented by impartial
> observers and study managers, and has even been acknowledged by the
> press itself.

THE TRUTHMONGERING VERNACULAR TRANSLATION AND CRITIQUE:
  It is unconscienable for the mass media to hold traditional values 
up to scorn, and mock Ra, Isis, and the many, many gods who were born
of a virgin and died and rose after three days, the last of which was...
hang on, his name is on the tip of my tongue...Jesus!
  Remember: left wing values =/= decency and morality
  Is the Dumb Cunt telling us that the Moral Majority, which would
by definition be the "prevailing order of the day," are a bunch of
queer, violent aborionists with contempt for parental authority?
I _thought_ there was something weird about those fuckers.
  Those were non-Christian 'impartial' observers and study managers,
right? <snicker-snicker-guffah!>

 > RULE FOR REVOLUTION #3:     ENCOURAGE PUBLIC INDIFFERENCE
> 
> THE RULE:
> Cause the people to become disinterested in their own government and in
> world affairs. Get them to feel disenfranchised. Get them to ridicule
> and lose respect for government leaders.
> 
> THE DUMB CUNT'S OPINION:
> Americans now vote at a lower rate than at any other time in our
> history. Every American knows how disenfranchised and powerless the
> average voter feels.  The media constantly trumpet instances of
> hypocrisy and corruption in our government, despite the fact that we
> have the most open and honest political system in the world.

  Hold it!
  <laugh> <barf> <laugh> <barf>
  OK, continue...

>   The
> United States Supreme Court has wrested much of the State's power from
> them with judicial activism.   This means that the people's
> representatives at the State level -- and therefore the people
> themselves -- have much less of a voice in their own government.
> On the state level, when people or local legislators finally manage to
> pass a conservative law regarding abortion, pornography or
> homosexuality, it is invariably challenged by Neo-liberal groups and
> struck down by higher courts, leading voters to ask themselves
> "Why bother participating in the process? We have no real voice in how
> things are run anyway!"

THE TRUTHMONGERING VERNACULAR TRANSLATION AND CRITIQUE:
  This is the communists doing this, again, right? Flouridated water,
etc?
 
> RULE FOR REVOLUTION #4:     ENCOURAGE PUBLIC BICKERING
> 
> THE RULE:
> Divide the people into hostile groups. Divide them against themselves by
> getting them to squabble about inconsequential social issues.
> 
> THE DUMB CUNT'S OPINION:
> Never before have so many trivial issues captured so much air time.
> Major construction and other projects are halted due to sometimes
> trivial environmental concerns.  Critical research which uses animals is
> halted or impeded by animal-rights groups.  Sodomy rights, old- growth
> timber, anti-fur, and dozens of other Neoliberal causes (and the
> conservative backlash) cause more friction among our nation's people
> than in any other nation in the world.
> 
> Meanwhile, the real issues of importance are either entirely neglected
> or paid weak lip service:   Crime, poverty, hunger and, beneath all of
> them, the moral disintegration of our country.   All of these have lead
> to despair among those affected and encourage violent change at any
> cost, with no thought given to the kind of change being fought for.
> Naturally, when conservatives react to Neoliberal initiatives with
> concrete action, they are painted as agents of "divisiveness" and
> "disunity," further leading to the impression that American society is
> composed entirely of squabbling special-interest groups.

THE TRUTHMONGERING VERNACULAR TRANSLATION AND CRITIQUE:
  If the Dumb Cunt (TM) and her right-wing bum-buddies would quit
opposing environmental concerns, animal-rights, sodomy and dozens 
of other Neoliberal causes, then there wouldn't be all of that 
bickering now, would there? 
  The TruthMonger of the fact is, the problem is that the "real issues
of importance" *_ARE_* the subject of "concrete action" by those who
have decided that their own conservative values should be legislated
into governmental existence in the interests of punishing and 
imprisoning those with different values.
  I've never seen anyone imprisoned for _not_ smoking a joint.
  Think about _that_ you Ignorant Nazi Bitch!

> RULE FOR REVOLUTION #5:      SEIZE POWER, THEN CENSOR
> 
> THE RULE:
> Always preach true democracy, but seize power as completely and
> ruthlessly as possible.  Vigorously censor viewpoints that conflict with
> ours.
> 
> THE DUMB CUNT'S OPINION:
> If the slightest complaint against pornography in our schools is raised
> by concerned parents, People for the American Way (PAW), the ACLU, and
> other left-wing groups instantly shout "censorship!"   But they say not
> a word when it is pointed out that the Bible and all mention of morality
> in textbooks have been ruthlessly hounded from the schools.
> 
> Religion has literally disappeared from our children's textbooks. The
> media relentlessly suppress the reasoning behind conservative and
> traditional viewpoints while reporting their version of the facts and
> claiming "impartiality."
> 
> Artists' demand that the people pay for their atrocities. When the
> people balk, the 'artists' whine about censorship. All traditional
> groups and viewpoints are fair game for ridicule; yet when was the last
> time you saw any 'artist' making fun of sodomites or women?
> 
> In other words, the censorship is all one-way. And the "pluralism"
> valued so much by the Neoliberals is entirely unilateral (one way only).
> 
> Communist atrocities which have killed more than 150 million all over
> the world are glossed over or ignored, but the most trivial
> international action by the United States brings immediate and forceful
> condemnation.

THE TRUTHMONGERING VERNACULAR TRANSLATION AND CRITIQUE:
  The Bibles were removed from the schools by the white Christian
kids barricaded inside, thowing the Bibles at the niggers, as they
tried to enter the school buildings. While waiting for the Bibles
to be replaced the students had nothing left to read but the
Constitution, and realized that the Bibles shouldn't have been
there in the first place.
  I would like to remind the Dumb Cunt that there are no laws
prohibiting her children from bowing and praying toward Mecca
three times a day, and it would probably do them some good.
  The rest of the points above merely serve to illustrate that
conservatives can't handle good acid, and should probably stick
to booze.
 
> RULE FOR REVOLUTION #6:       BANKRUPT THE GOVERNMENT
> 
> THE RULE:
> Encourage government extravagance on every front.
> Get the government deeply into debt. Get the people dependent on
> government by providing for their every need. This destroys their
> independence, motivation and strength.
> 
> THE DUMB CUNT'S OPINION:
> The United States is flat broke. It is the number one debtor nation on
> earth, with a deficit of more than $5,000,000,000,000 (five trillion
> dollars).   Social programs pay for everything from abortion and
> homosexual-run "sensitivity training sessions" to comprehensive sex
> education.
> 
> We are the most truly Socialistic society on earth, a nation
> of people addicted to entitlements, unable to break away from the ample
> government teat, people who scream at the top of our lungs if any
> cutbacks in services are proposed.
> 
> And yet, the Neoliberals want to spend even more.
> 
> They want us to fund family benefits for sodomites, a comprehensive
> health care plan that will inevitably turn into a Britain-like
> socialized horror, and "art" that is blatantly obscene.

THE TRUTHMONGERING VERNACULAR TRANSLATION AND CRITIQUE:
  I agree with the Dumb Cunt (TM) on this point. We need to fuck
away our money on billions and billions of dollars of nuclear arms,
weapons, surveillance equipment, secret agents and assassins, etc.
  A decent and moral society can only be ensured by buying 10,000
toilet seats for the Pentagon.
  (Jesus. You _really_are_ a Dumb Cunt (TM), aren't you?)
 
> RULE FOR REVOLUTION #7:       DESTROY NATIONAL VALUES
> 
> THE RULE:
> Cause a breakdown of indigenous national values.  Destroy all tradition
> in preparation for the bright dawn of glorious Socialism.  Ridicule
> religion, patriotism, and honesty. The people must be led to have only
> one interest:   Themselves!
> 
> THE DUMB CUNT'S OPINION:
> >From the public schools to the pulpits of Christian "churches," moral
> relativism and situational ethics are the rule of the day. The highest
> goods are compassion, nonjudgmentalism, and tolerance.
> Any individual weakness is treated as a problem of society, not of the
> person, and this relieves everyone of the responsibility of improving
> themselves.
> 
> Why should there be any effort to take responsibility for one's own
> faults when "society" is so conveniently ready to take the blame for all
> one's sins? Society has made the sacrifice.   So criminals, addicts,
> alcoholics, child molesters, wife beaters, and others can always blame
> their problems on society.
> 
> We have truly become the "me generation."

THE TRUTHMONGERING VERNACULAR TRANSLATION AND CRITIQUE:
  The Dumb Cunt (TM) is beginning to degenerate into drooling and
meaningless generalizations which make little sense.
 
> RULE FOR REVOLUTION #8:       ATTACK GUN OWNERSHIP
> 
> THE RULE:
> Control or register all firearms if possible. This will make their
> confiscation much easier when the time comes for revolution.
> 
> THE DUMB CUNT'S OPINION:
> When the Communist Revolution occurs in the United States, the last
> thing the Red Armies want to face is ten million determined and
> well-trained guerrillas (gun owners) taking potshots at them from around
> every corner.
> 
> The Communists don't want the equivalent of ten Afghanistans in the
> United States.
> 
> Although the objective of inhibiting gun ownership has not yet been
> completely met, there are dozens of bills and initiatives being
> submitted all over the country for compulsory gun registration,
> permitting, and other controls.   The Second Amendment is
> disregarded entirely as Neoliberals trumpet for all guns to be totally
> banned.
> After all, they say, thousands die from gun-related accidents and crimes
> every year. They fail to see that criminals will always get guns, a
> parallel to their own argument stating that, if abortion becomes
> illegal, women will still get abortions.

THE TRUTHMONGERING VERNACULAR TRANSLATION AND CRITIQUE:
  I guess it was a mistake for the Dumb Cunt (TM) and her right-wing
bum-buddies to join the left-wing sodomy artists in electing so
goddamn many Communist gun-snatchers to political office.
  I think we ought to give Hinkley his gun back, as soon as 
another Republican is elected President.

 > RULES FOR REVOLUTION #9 AND #10:    UNDERMINE THE ARMED FORCES
> 
> THE RULES:
> Destroy the reputation of the armed forces.
> Cause the young men to perceive military duty as distasteful and
> ridiculous. Fight registration of any kind, and encourage defections
> within the ranks.
> Cause the people to desire peace at any cost.   Cause them to oppose any
> and all of their government's actions regarding the strengthening or use
> of their armed forces.
> 
> THE DUMB CUNT'S OPINION:
> Our country's armed forces consume a vast percentage of our gross
> national product.
> We possess the best and most advanced weapons systems in the world. But
> our armed forces are a joke for two reasons:
> (1) they are completely restrained in their actions by a hostile
> Congress, and
> (2) the armed forces have been saddled with such a bad reputation that
> it is virtually impossible to fill the ranks with volunteers, even in
> the new and streamlined armed services.
> 
> Where serving in the armed forces was once considered patriotic and
> honorable (as it was in the former Soviet Union), it is now looked upon
> as foolish and 'anti-progressive.'
> 
> Servicemen are ridiculed and denigrated at every turn. People say that,
> if you can't make it on the outside, you wind up in the armed forces.
> 
> Every serviceman is considered to be a useless gobbler of tax money.

THE TRUTHMONGERING VERNACULAR TRANSLATION AND CRITIQUE:
  And all of the good soldiers, like Tim McVeigh, end up leaving.
 
> FINAL REALITY:  WELCOME TO AMERIKA, COMRADES.
> ================================================================
> The 'Rules for Revolution' described here are the most important actions
> that can be taken to weaken a country in order to prepare it for armed
> attack or a skillful coup d'etat.  These rules are summaries that are
> extracted from a number of books written by professional revolutionaries
> from the former Soviet Union, from other Communist-dominated countries,
> and from the United States itself.
> They are most concisely summarized in the 2,225 page, three-volume set
> Lenin: Selected Works , distributed in English by Progress Publishers,
> 21, Zubovsky Boulevard, Moscow.
> These general principles, dedicated to one of the most famous
> revolutionaries of all time, Vladimir Lenin, are studied by every
> Communist political scientist, and by every ambassador or emissary of
> any type who leaves the former Soviet Union.  They are also studied in
> great detail by many Americans.

THE TRUTHMONGERING VERNACULAR TRANSLATION AND CRITIQUE:
  Vladimir Lenin's best friend in the whole, wide world, is the Dumb
Cunt (TM) and her Nazi Christian bum-buddies. 
  The Godless Communists and the Nazi Christians could trade their
brochures and just interchange the words  "Commie" and "Christian."

  I wish I had a penny for every Dumb Cunt (TM) and Stupid Prick (TM)
who spent the majority of their time promoting the very same beliefs
as those they claim to oppose, the only difference being that their
'solution' is the MLM promoting of a 'god' with a different name,
or a 'flag' with a different 'hang time.'

> --
> Jodi Hoffman   R.A.M.P.  http://www.gocin.com/ramp
> Victimization of Children/Research & Education Council of America
> 1304 SW 160th Avenue, Suite 122  Weston, Florida 33326
> Phone: (954) 349-0366   Fax: (954) 349-0361

  Why does it not come as a surprise that this Dumb Cunt Nazi Christian
Bitch (TM) is hiding behind 'the children,' hoping that it will prevent
her from being a target of reprisal for the bullshit she is flinging
at others?

Why doesn't someone shoot this Dumb Cunt Nazi Christian Bitch?
If it saves the life of just one child...

TruthMonger





{% endraw %}
```

## Thread

+ Return to [November 1997](/archive/1997/11)

+ 1997-11-03 (Tue, 4 Nov 1997 02:49:00 +0800) - [Why porn must be stopped at all costs, by Jodi Hoffman](/archive/1997/11/db4a78295e23685ad0dc62b4edabcd46147e690b990464ee8e29587643d045ff) - _Declan McCullagh \<declan@vorlon.mit.edu\>_
  + 1997-11-03 (Tue, 4 Nov 1997 06:10:39 +0800) - Why Jodi Hoffman must be called a 'Dumb Cunt' and told to 'Go Fuck Yourself' at all costs, by TruthMonger - _TruthMonger \<tm@dev.null\>_
    + 1997-11-04 (Wed, 5 Nov 1997 00:45:28 +0800) - [Re: Why Jodi Hoffman must be called a 'Dumb Cunt' and told to 'Go Fuck Yourself' at all costs, by TruthMonger](/archive/1997/11/a500c15ad71e6678253a9786944f7247a2c0274f54328c7131be115e6c5e30d9) - _ichudov@Algebra.COM (Igor Chudov @ home)_
      + 1997-11-05 (Wed, 5 Nov 1997 10:00:59 +0800) - [Re: Why Jodi Hoffman must be called a 'Dumb Cunt' and told to 'Go Fuck Yourself' at all costs, by TruthMonger](/archive/1997/11/cc2bf4526a7a2606f448256ae20e893be8531045eb44d373f8629261e67f9ba1) - _Rabid Wombat \<wombat@mcfeely.bsfs.org\>_
        + 1997-11-05 (Wed, 5 Nov 1997 11:21:30 +0800) - [Re: Why Jodi Hoffman must be called a 'Dumb Cunt' and told to 'Go Fuck Yourself' at all costs, by TruthMonger](/archive/1997/11/730bd938bda5c5e6b39530408a98aeb40678f6e723de5b89d7caaf5d2b319774) - _TruthMonger \<tm@dev.null\>_
  + 1997-11-03 (Tue, 4 Nov 1997 07:10:16 +0800) - [Re: Why Jodi Hoffman must be called a 'Dumb Cunt' and told to 'Go Fuck Yourself' at all costs, by TruthMonger](/archive/1997/11/be873589ac0a40b24d464108aa3d96fcf91cb8c57c793293bd52d4f6940d6584) - _Jodi Hoffman \<jlhoffm@ibm.net\>_
    + 1997-11-07 (Fri, 7 Nov 1997 14:05:02 +0800) - [Re: Why Jodi Hoffman must be called a 'Dumb Cunt' and told to 'Go Fuck Yourself' at all costs, by TruthMonger](/archive/1997/11/9d1ed53995f1aace5828146acb2bb2ca441d1c4ec654e2550c9bed7b2c410351) - _"snow" \<snow@smoke.suba.com\>_
  + 1997-11-03 (Tue, 4 Nov 1997 07:23:48 +0800) - [Re: Why Jodi Hoffman must be called a 'Dumb Cunt' and told to 'Go Fuck Yourself' at all costs, by TruthMonger](/archive/1997/11/eda83f9d8258a1c6e643790f5907074e57d4465374f9eef9304035eac244acfa) - _Lizard \<lizard@mrlizard.com\>_
  + 1997-11-03 (Tue, 4 Nov 1997 07:55:35 +0800) - [Re: Why Jodi Hoffman must be called a 'Dumb Cunt' and told to 'Go Fuck Yourself' at all costs, by TruthMonger](/archive/1997/11/30622d20600859f21540e6538973799031f3a898e046f465aa39a3f0776eddf5) - _berezina@qed.net (Paul Spirito)_
  + 1997-11-04 (Tue, 4 Nov 1997 09:22:01 +0800) - [Re: Why Jodi Hoffman must be called a 'Dumb Cunt' and told to 'Go Fuck Yourself' at all costs, by TruthMonger](/archive/1997/11/c3622e0aee65560f277405b76fa6eda507445b25bbcde31df21c90d8f3bb6ce4) - _TruthMonger \<tm@dev.null\>_
  + 1997-11-04 (Tue, 4 Nov 1997 09:36:16 +0800) - [Re: Why porn must be stopped at all costs, by Jodi Hoffman](/archive/1997/11/8a159580e0673b1c658e927feaeb6eb50ed8bf3d5865aa3dc90066830e84c941) - _Ryan Anderson \<ryan@michonline.com\>_
  + 1997-11-04 (Tue, 4 Nov 1997 12:14:46 +0800) - [Re: Why porn must be stopped at all costs, by Jodi Hoffman](/archive/1997/11/2e67f26d4327e72c0977303dff37270dd0ac17ee4b4fcf450136c1169d6d8f9b) - _Steve Schear \<steve@lvdi.net\>_
  + 1997-11-04 (Tue, 4 Nov 1997 12:21:57 +0800) - [Re: Why Jodi Hoffman must be called a 'Dumb Cunt' and told to 'Go Fuck Yourself' at all costs, by TruthMonger](/archive/1997/11/85dad69b465ff627ce5db5d2ed68dcbe82a259b3b8a53c594b00bb2042c6fbe1) - _Jesus Christ \<jc@dev.null\>_
  + 1997-11-05 (Wed, 5 Nov 1997 09:19:53 +0800) - [Re: Why Jodi Hoffman must be called a 'Dumb Cunt' and told to 'Go Fuck Yourself' at all costs, by TruthMonger](/archive/1997/11/a5403324fd12178a75a07931b6d71707538e57b7579ce4e28f0479acf8b5faa0) - _Jodi Hoffman \<jlhoffm@ibm.net\>_
    + 1997-11-05 (Wed, 5 Nov 1997 12:10:18 +0800) - [Will Jews be Forced to Accept Christ in Public Schools?](/archive/1997/11/b1a8a6e65b8e1c96236d95e32d655b428054b68b92a75f9ee86e4752b8a837a7) - _Tim May \<tcmay@got.net\>_
      + 1997-11-05 (Wed, 5 Nov 1997 13:28:46 +0800) - [Re: Will Jews be Forced to Accept Christ in Public Schools?](/archive/1997/11/031447de0da71f87b71c1737e8c81eef1342c7b798d1a5382bd4704d50dfc962) - _nobody@REPLAY.COM (Anonymous)_
      + 1997-11-11 (Wed, 12 Nov 1997 00:47:14 +0800) - [Re: Will Jews be Forced to Accept Christ in Public Schools?](/archive/1997/11/358e96fdebd01a70dbb32c510394a643c1f7608e92d8113c74e3d3d5ffc8fb22) - _nospam-seesignature@ceddec.com_
        + 1997-11-15 (Sat, 15 Nov 1997 14:05:56 +0800) - [Re: Will Jews be Forced to Accept Christ in Public Schools?](/archive/1997/11/6e346fcd56c65a49a5e4824f7809a36c8336a0d3e0b17d8871d6d5449e6e8b68) - _? the Platypus {aka David Formosa} \<dformosa@st.nepean.uws.edu.au\>_
        + 1997-11-15 (Sat, 15 Nov 1997 14:25:39 +0800) - [Re: Will Jews be Forced to Accept Christ in Public Schools?](/archive/1997/11/127b95012261ac33c7ee8d47cb35e23ec6e2d68f4d1f54a095dc3ffe588b5675) - _Tim May \<tcmay@got.net\>_
          + 1997-11-16 (Sun, 16 Nov 1997 10:25:59 +0800) - [Re: Will Jews be Forced to Accept Christ in Public Schools?](/archive/1997/11/9476819ff60658219c73a1367ee61cd1fb57f17f62635f734f4b986324de9ea9) - _? the Platypus {aka David Formosa} \<dformosa@st.nepean.uws.edu.au\>_
            + 1997-11-18 (Wed, 19 Nov 1997 00:28:15 +0800) - [Re: Will Jews be Forced to Accept Christ in Public Schools?](/archive/1997/11/9963b580e76b18eab2adce56f58f614c8f92180b3617b0cc343ac09e954281ba) - _nospam-seesignature@ceddec.com_
              + 1997-11-22 (Sat, 22 Nov 1997 10:40:54 +0800) - [Re: Will Jews be Forced to Accept Christ in Public Schools?](/archive/1997/11/10d1153671bb3950db12fd36601e34decee5549125b6afb5cee5da646a1626a0) - _? the Platypus {aka David Formosa} \<dformosa@st.nepean.uws.edu.au\>_
                + 1997-11-21 (Fri, 21 Nov 1997 15:17:10 -0800 (PST)) - [Re: Will Jews be Forced to Accept Christ in Public Schools?](/archive/1997/11/9b13663f52630196ed1270dde2e2a91152ee3c65ea836c4471454e8bb733e676) - _nospam-seesignature@ceddec.com_
                  + 1997-11-23 (Sun, 23 Nov 1997 12:54:43 +0800) - [Re: Will Jews be Forced to Accept Christ in Public Schools?](/archive/1997/11/1369748433ff75ae5f7b4ad3e9c2e471e3b3eb103cd0299822d755532882ccdd) - _? the Platypus {aka David Formosa} \<dformosa@st.nepean.uws.edu.au\>_
                    + 1997-11-23 (Sun, 23 Nov 1997 16:36:16 +0800) - [Re: Will Jews be Forced to Accept Christ in Public Schools?](/archive/1997/11/ba9c01d318309f086761407cb299d3357f23a5064afe5e59078c6b7ffd7a7ab8) - _dlv@bwalk.dm.com (Dr.Dimitri Vulis KOTM)_
                      + 1997-11-23 (Sun, 23 Nov 1997 17:43:15 +0800) - [Re: Will Jews be Forced to Accept Christ in Public Schools?](/archive/1997/11/4ec695fcceffbd522164646e9fd0e8f21f6daea117ac768a1d8fc7b82c520396) - _TruthMonger \<tm@dev.null\>_
                      + 1997-11-23 (Mon, 24 Nov 1997 02:49:56 +0800) - [Influence as a voter](/archive/1997/11/559e432b6ab2c06e473c26aae3ddf0d2d4b8dd939c52a9a19a683abb09aad9f1) - _ichudov@Algebra.COM (Igor Chudov @ home)_
                        + 1997-11-23 (Mon, 24 Nov 1997 04:01:37 +0800) - [Re: Influence as a voter](/archive/1997/11/193aaf15d1e35bf7dc21f9324ca4e0e4783f1e5d3d2b67e4fdeb6fdadfaa09d5) - _dlv@bwalk.dm.com (Dr.Dimitri Vulis KOTM)_
                      + 1997-11-24 (Mon, 24 Nov 1997 17:34:24 +0800) - [Re: Will Jews be Forced to Accept Christ in Public Schools?](/archive/1997/11/5aa82fb99df3c0d6d3a2d5396c689abd7afeee062bb3eadf0e9a9f825928c56c) - _? the Platypus {aka David Formosa} \<dformosa@st.nepean.uws.edu.au\>_
                    + 1997-11-23 (Mon, 24 Nov 1997 06:57:48 +0800) - [Re: Will Jews be Forced to Accept Christ in Public Schools?](/archive/1997/11/b8b45cf87576634f6b177f72c360060e4d5c96cfb6139dd6c49af03c4c1f517a) - _Jon Galt \<jongalt@pinn.net\>_
                      + 1997-11-24 (Mon, 24 Nov 1997 20:24:40 +0800) - [Re: Will Jews be Forced to Accept Christ in Public Schools?](/archive/1997/11/080b6931f80b34ed63cdfea823c0f42de7f7d6883e41e9b5d21d6da6066aae44) - _? the Platypus {aka David Formosa} \<dformosa@st.nepean.uws.edu.au\>_
  + 1997-11-05 (Wed, 5 Nov 1997 09:27:42 +0800) - [Re: Why Jodi Hoffman must be called a 'Dumb Cunt' and told to 'Go Fuck Yourself' at all costs, by TruthMonger](/archive/1997/11/55e4eb72a2178e0d078ba05d30772c1ab0f96ef5b3bb29310f3a7abb876a0b2e) - _Lizard \<lizard@mrlizard.com\>_
  + 1997-11-05 (Wed, 5 Nov 1997 09:40:58 +0800) - [Re: Why Jodi Hoffman must be called a 'Dumb Cunt' and told to 'Go Fuck Yourself' at all costs, by TruthMonger](/archive/1997/11/47dbff4815f2a7cd78871c223602b93ce2bd0ff053fa206375c995d78fd7ad30) - _hayden@phoenix.net_
  + 1997-11-05 (Wed, 5 Nov 1997 12:14:31 +0800) - [Re: Why Jodi Hoffman must be called a 'Dumb Cunt' and told to 'Go Fuck Yourself' at all costs, by TruthMonger](/archive/1997/11/d936a4c713bc9da760e4e3eb22ba661be9b0534409540cf3558c8568e76e4fc9) - _Jesus Christ \<js@dev.null\>_
  + 1997-11-05 (Wed, 5 Nov 1997 18:39:40 +0800) - [Re: Why Jodi Hoffman must be called a 'Dumb Cunt' and told to 'Go Fuck Yourself' at all costs, by TruthMonger](/archive/1997/11/c7b58615f938e765f967d3025230a384c8d66f20358fcd951614ad15cbcd9eb1) - _aileen holovacs \<holovacsOMIT@idt.net\>_

