---
layout: default
---

# 1997-12-05 - Singapore & Freedom

## Header Data

From: nobody@REPLAY.COM (Anonymous)<br>
To: cypherpunks@Algebra.COM<br>
Message Hash: f68e8b20c4988cee357fb15a21a059f1dda81bb4d54583d2057d795b7dfe68f2<br>
Message ID: \<199712052343.AAA20937@basement.replay.com\><br>
Reply To: _N/A_<br>
UTC Datetime: 1997-12-05 23:52:31 UTC<br>
Raw Date: Sat, 6 Dec 1997 07:52:31 +0800<br>

## Raw message

```
{% raw  %}From: nobody@REPLAY.COM (Anonymous)
Date: Sat, 6 Dec 1997 07:52:31 +0800
To: cypherpunks@Algebra.COM
Subject: Singapore & Freedom
Message-ID: <199712052343.AAA20937@basement.replay.com>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



>On Thu, 4 Dec 1997, J. Lasser wrote:

>And Singapore survives quite well being a totalitarian
>capitalist society. Sure, you can pick nits and claim that
>Singapore's not entirely capitalist, but it's more capitalist
>than this country and certainly less free, too.

 > http://cgi.pathfinder.com/netly/editorial/0,1012,266,00.html

>In some ways, Singaporeans are more free than U.S. citizens.
>Income taxes and sales taxes are lower. Prostitution is legal.
>The government does not impose rules on whom private landlords
>can and can't rent to. Unlike some cities in the states,
>Singapore has no curfews. Being able to walk outside safely at
>night in any area of the city, even the poor excuse for the
>city's red light district, has its attractions.

> -Declan

I lived and worked in Singapore for 8 years.  Singapore is not
what I call a free society.  Their system has many advantages,
you are pretty much free to make money providing you are doing so
in an area where the government has no interest.  The Singapore
government runs many enterprises and if you happen to be their
competition they will tear you apart to get rid of the
competition.  The Singaporean government tends to cater to the
multinational corporations, who were their earlier ticket to
economic prosperity, and don't do a lot to encourage local grown
business other than to provide a suitable environment for
business, which is good enough on its own.

Singapore is a great place to do business, yours costs are
predictable, something you can not say about the surrounding
countries where corruption makes costs unpredictable.  Singapore
labor is reasonably priced, well-educated, reasonably trained,
and well-disciplined - or at least they don't talk back or
complain unless you try something really stupid.  Singapore
management is expensive, well-educated, but not quite as
versatile as westerners.

Singapore is a social experiment, a group (read PAP) has gained
control and decided to mold the society into something different
than it was.  This is probably a good thing as in the 50s
Singapore was a cesspool, in many ways.  The story goes that you
could smell Singapore 200 miles out, in an airplane.  Everything
that Singapore is today is what it was not in the 50s.

The educational system has been engineered to produce the maximum
number of worker units.  Being a small country with limited
resources (with labor being the main exportable resource) they
could not afford to have an educational system which allowed some
potential worker units to drop-out.  Compare this against the
American system where you are free to succeed, or free to fail,
the choice is basically given to the citizen.  In Singapore this
is not how it works, the blinders are installed early, you are
not permitted to fail to become a good productive member of the
society.  In Singapore you are free, as long as you are a good
productive member of the society.  Try talking back and
complaining about the system and see where that gets you?  I
think they call it Woodbridge.

This social engineering may be a good thing.  Look at the
benefits obtained by Singapore.  In the current economic meltdown
in SE Asia Singapore is only threatened with lower growth.  The
people are happy and they love their country and government, to
the average Singaporean the government can do no wrong.  Most
Western governments would love to be in the same position.

There are costs associated with an engineered society of this
type.  Elder Statesman Lee, he went by Harry Lee before he
learned Mandarin, is always ranting about all the good genetics
being wasted as there is a large number of educated women who
have not married and therefore are not able to reproduce.  Harry
has been ranting about this for more than 10 years.  In a
nutshell certain segments of the population have lost their
ability to mate.  The Singapore government has initiated a
program to help educated Singaporeans find mates.  Great system,
economic prosperity, but what am I supposed to do with this
thing...

Don't forget the other good points, no guns or bullets, color
copiers are (were?) restricted, all media controlled by the
government (even Time magazine was banned), mandatory savings
program (CPF), National Service, and the government attitude of
those that are not with us are against us.  Also, don't forget
that the Singaporean government has brought the Big Brother
concept to reality.

SingMonger






{% endraw %}
```

## Thread

+ Return to [December 1997](/archive/1997/12)

+ 1997-12-05 (Sat, 6 Dec 1997 07:52:31 +0800) - Singapore & Freedom - _nobody@REPLAY.COM (Anonymous)_
  + 1997-12-07 (Sun, 7 Dec 1997 17:53:30 +0800) - [Re: Singapore & Freedom](/archive/1997/12/9f1d337c01932dc0cb46ca5ba637a2218423f98803f66f5f0104d3bcb5d76844) - _Harish Pillay \<harish@brokat.com.sg\>_

