---
layout: default
---

# 1996-02-10 - IBM, RSA Security

## Header Data

From: nobody<span>@</span>REPLAY.COM (Anonymous)<br>
To: cypherpunks@toad.com<br>
Message Hash: fb7ee17abec7c4b9773cff4204d03ef093ddef7f791fadc5f81aa57480c48781<br>
Message ID: \<199602100134.CAA06117@utopia.hacktic.nl\><br>
Reply To: _N/A_<br>
UTC Datetime: 1996-02-10 02:56:31 UTC<br>
Raw Date: Sat, 10 Feb 1996 10:56:31 +0800<br>

## Raw message

```
{% raw  %}From: nobody@REPLAY.COM (Anonymous)
Date: Sat, 10 Feb 1996 10:56:31 +0800
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: IBM, RSA Security
Message-ID: <199602100134.CAA06117@utopia.hacktic.nl>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain



More On IBM's Internet SecureWay Security Plans

London, 9 February 1996 -- IBM UK has revealed a little
more of the detail surrounding its deal with RSA Data
Security for the Big Blue range of SecureWay Internet
security products and services.

According to Kathy Kincaid, director of IT (information
security) programs with Big Blue, the idea behind the
development project is to develop a set of open
cryptography standards for the Internet and other
networks, so supporting secure electronic commerce.

Both companies plan to develop interoperable security
across IBM products and other vendor platforms. According
to IBM, their efforts will provide customers and
developers with safe universal access to the Internet,
consistent with US and non-US export regulations
governing cryptographic products.

The linkup between the two companies, Kincaid explained,
will allow them to modify RSA's BSAFE encryption engine
and Big Blue's Common Cryptographic Architecture (CCA)
for interoperability between RSA's toolkits and IBM's
CCA-based hardware systems.

"The complementary skills, technology and experience of
IBM and RSA will greatly benefit our customers and the
security industry," Kincaid said, adding that both
companies have been testing interoperability across a
series of virtual private networks (VPNs).

Jim Bidzos, RSA's CEO, claims that the deal will involve
several levels of close cooperation between RSA and Big
Blue, with staff at RSA's labs working with IBM's crypto
researchers at its T J Watson facility to produce "more
efficient and secure commercial cryptography.

"In addition, there will be close cooperation on the
development of protocols and interfaces. The result
should be trusted, seamless, interoperable security
across not only the IBM product line, but across vendor
products as well, when the resulting technology is
adopted by both RSA and IBM's large customer vase," he
explained.

In parallel with the launch of the SecureWay range of
Internet products and services, IBM's Internet decision
has agreed to begin an internal pilot test of RSA Secure,
RSA's disk and file encryption technology, which includes
a facility for emergency key access.

Further details of IBM's SecureWay range of Internet
products and services can be found on Big Blue's World
Wide Web ages, at http://www.ibm.com . According to IBM,
its security products support the security component of
the Open Blueprint. A white paper on security in the Open
Blueprint is available from IBM's Canada's test lab Web
pages at

http://www.torolab.ibm.com/openblue/openblue.html . 

--

IBM & RSA Develop "SecureWay" Internet Products

London, 8 February 1996 -- IBM and RSA Data Security have 
teamed up to develop open cryptography systems for the
Internet and other networks. Thanks to the linkup, IBM
plans to ship a whole range of Internet security products
to tie in with its existing range of Internet services,
over the next few months.

Anna Russell, a spokesperson for IBM's UK and European
operations, said that the RSA technology and products
deal applies worldwide, with the resultant security
products expected to dovetail in with Big Blue's existing
range of Internet services for businesses, end users, and
major corporations.

The whole ensemble of services, hardware and software,
will be banded together under the umbrella name of
SecureWay, a name that Russell claims will get the
message across to potential users that the IBM portfolio
covers many different aspects of computer networking.

"The SecureWay products and services will be offered
throughout IBM channels, ranging from dealers, right
through to value-added resellers. The SecureWay range
will be offered through all channels on a global basis,"
she explained.

According to Russell, the SecureWay range include access
controls, cryptographic hardware and software for the IBM
server series, smart cards and readers, gateway
firewalls, single logon security admin systems,
anti-virus software, distributed security management,
directory and security services for network servers, and
Internet browsers and servers, as well as secured
networks.

Kathy Kincaid, director of IBM's information technology
(IT) security programs in the UK and Europe, explained
that the SecureWay product range will include an
emergency response service, "ethical hacking" by Big
Blue's global security analysis labs, and turnkey
firewall installation services. ...

--





{% endraw %}
```

## Thread

+ Return to [February 1996](/archive/1996/02)

+ Return to "[nobody<span>@</span>REPLAY.COM (Anonymous)](/authors/nobody_at_replay_com_anonymous_)"

+ 1996-02-10 (Sat, 10 Feb 1996 10:56:31 +0800) - IBM, RSA Security - _nobody@REPLAY.COM (Anonymous)_

