---
layout: default
---

# 1993-12-06 - Gwest what!

## Header Data

From: "L. Detweiler" \<ld231782<span>@</span>longs.lance.colostate.edu\><br>
To: cypherpunks@toad.com<br>
Message Hash: 2254d511549f4f3b0743f95d1f5452f983491c09556dfb913e1f9b0ca382a205<br>
Message ID: \<9312060657.AA04877@longs.lance.colostate.edu\><br>
Reply To: _N/A_<br>
UTC Datetime: 1993-12-06 06:59:53 UTC<br>
Raw Date: Sun, 5 Dec 93 22:59:53 PST<br>

## Raw message

```
{% raw  %}From: "L. Detweiler" <ld231782@longs.lance.colostate.edu>
Date: Sun, 5 Dec 93 22:59:53 PST
To: cypherpunks@toad.com
Subject: Gwest what!
Message-ID: <9312060657.AA04877@longs.lance.colostate.edu>
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain


Sigh. No one has taken over for me, but I still have many requests from
people who loved the Guess Which Eminent Leader Said This game. I will
do this one in batches, and save the best for last. I include some
translations (they speak in CryptoAnarchish, and this will help refine
my translation skills). This is probably the last one, but one never
knows if I might get  some new material later.

* * *

Third Eminent Leader

The Third eminent leader is mostly uninvolved personally, but he is
still an accomplice to concealing the perversions of the other two leaders.

`Pseudonyms are for magazine subscriptions. Besides, Chaum came up with
pseudonyms for his own protocols. Is he subversive?'

The point to make about this is that Chaum's pseudonyms are
*understood* to be pseudonyms by a bank. But this detracts from the
potency of the propaganda. And the Cryptoanarchist tentacles are very
different than magazine pseudonyms! But he will never understand
something so contrary to the Religion of Lies. (I was quite
disappointed to find he had been brainwashed.) Anyway, next one:

`I only give my phone number to my friends. I'm not going to give it to
you, the way things are going with our conversations.'

I was going to call this Eminent Leader to ask him about some of his
claims in his email messages and his personal knowledge and involvement
in the Cypherpunk pseudospoofing. I think he feels more comfortable
lying in email than on the phone.

* * *

Second Eminent Leader:

`Better to leave all our beliefs unwritten, and pretend the agenda is
what we favor.''

I can't remember if this was through the `jamie' tentacle or not. But
it is highly characteristic of this person, whose whole life is nothing
but a pretense. Every post of his was designed to cleverly conceal some
hidden agenda in respectable prose. A master of brainwashing! more on this later.

`better to live with the occasional vagaries of digital pseudonyms than
to ban them.'

This is doublespeak for saying, `You had better not find out that I
have been molesting you with my tentacles all this time!'

* * *

First Eminent Leader:

The First Eminent Leader keeps a low profile on the list under his True
Name, but realize that his tentacles have always been the most active
of all! He is also a firm believer in the CryptoAnarchist ideology. He
is the main purveyor! Most other outlets are secondary. But he is very
careful only to speak through his tentacles, because he knows the
Cryptoanarchist agenda is inherently criminal. As for ideology, let's
just say he's more extremist than Perry Metzger.

``I am [x]. I have never posted or emailed under any name other than
[x]. At least, that's what I say. It's really a baldfaced lie. What I
am saying is that I have been so extremely clever (it is my nature to
outthink all the other pathetic brains out there!) that no one can
prove otherwise, particularly regarding the tentacles I have used to
molest my followers with. I can attest that I am different from other
people, including the ones that I invent.''

This was an interesting quote. You migh think that this person would be
scared of lying in RISKS or sending his tentacle-grams in for
submissions. Actually, he has been doing it for quite awhile!

The next one he sent me in private mail a long time ago. The scenario
was when I posted my message, `An Introspective Note' that led me to
all my brilliant realizations over the last few weeks, and the
demonization by every cypherpunk as Satan. So, this was long before I
had poisoned my reputation in front of the cypherpunks. (`The enmity of
a criminal is equivalent to the praise of a hero.')

``You must learn to be a sycophant in your posts or less conspicuous
and refined. You are outshining those who created the Cypherpunks. I
have too long tolerated your trash. You must learn to kiss my ass. If I
prevented you from posting, that would not be censorship. It would be a
simple exercise of my silent, iron fist.''

And, one of my favorites. This demonstrates the leader's arrogance and
commitment to pseudospoofing quite nicely.

 ``That which can never be enforced should not be prohibited. That
which is illegal or perverted should be allowed. The claim that a
person should have only one pseudonym per forum indicates profound
misunderstanding. The claim that a leader should be prevented from
molesting his followers with tentacles indicates profound
enlightenment. If someone wants to have multiple pseudonyms, they will
be able to; that is one of the main goals of cypherpunks software. If a
 leader wants to molest even the people who trust him with dozens of
tentacles, he will do so, that is one of the main goals of my life of
lies. The situations you despise will occur. I, Medusa, will betray you
with my snakes. This is reality. This is my life. Change your own
psychology or change your own software. Become corrupt yourself or try
in vain to prevent something that cannot be stopped. You will not be
able to change the other person. I am God.''




{% endraw %}
```

## Thread

+ Return to [December 1993](/archive/1993/12)

+ Return to "["L. Detweiler" <ld231782<span>@</span>longs.lance.colostate.edu>](/authors/l_detweiler_ld231782_at_longs_lance_colostate_edu_)"

+ 1993-12-06 (Sun, 5 Dec 93 22:59:53 PST) - Gwest what! - _"L. Detweiler" \<ld231782@longs.lance.colostate.edu\>_

